.TH TCPQUOTA.CF 5 "TCPQuota Utilities" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
.B tcpquota.cf
\- The configuration file for the TCPQuota programs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/tcpquota/tcpquota.cf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tcpquota.cf
contains various pieces of information used by the
TCPQuota programs. It is used by the daemon,
.br
.B tcpquotad(8)
to find out to which mSQL database to store it's
values in, and which users/hosts that is grouped
together. It is used by most of the program suite,
to find out
.B where
to find the mSQL server.
.SS Variables
.IP "PROTOCOL"
What kind of network protocol are we using?
Availible choises are
.B PPP
or
.B ISDN.
When using
.IR PPP,
it checks for a link by checking if there
is a route on
.IR ppp0.
and if we are using
.IR ISDN,
it checks the file
.B /dev/isdninfo
which contains the status of the
.IR ISDN
channels.
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR PROTOCOL=ISDN
.IP "LOC_ADDR"
Only used if we are using
.IR ISDN
as network protocol, ignored if we are using
.IR PPP
since when using PPP, one usually have a dynamic
IP address...
.br
This is the address on the local side of the link
(our address).
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR LOC_ADDR=195.100.20.3
.IP "REM_ADDR"
Only used if we are using
.IR ISDN
as network protocol, ignored if we are using
.IR PPP
since when using PPP, one usually have a dynamic
IP address...
.br
This is the address on the remote side of the link
(the ISP's address).
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR REM_ADDR=195.100.170.187
.IP "SERVER"
.br
This is the machine/host which is running the mSQL
server, could be IP address or FQDN address.
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR SERVER=42.42.40.42
.br
.IP
.B Example:
.IR SERVER=stalin.ccw.se
.IP "CHECK_REMOTE"
Should we check if we have remote connects (if someone
is connecting
.B to
us, via telnet/ssh/rlogin etc)?
This is a boolean value, true/false, 1/0 or yes/no
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR CHECK_REMOTE=yes
.IP "CHECK_FTP"
Should we check if we have remote connects (if someone
is connecting
.B to
us, via FTP)?
This is a boolean value, true/false, 1/0 or yes/no
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR CHECK_FTP=yes
.IP "CHECK_MASQ"
Should we check any computers which is masqueraded?
This is a boolean value, true/false, 1/0 or yes/no.
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR CHECK_MASQ=yes
.IP "GROUPS"
.br
With this variable, one can group computers (masqueraded)
together, and open each group separate. For example, we have
three rooms, with eight computers in each room and one teacher
in each. If the teacher have a class in 'Using the Internet
safely', and 'net time is included in the class fee, he/she
wants to be able to open only that room for free 'net access.
We then write (in the config file) the folloing:
.PP
.IP
GROUPS=GROUP1 GROUP2 GROUP3
.br
GROUP1=machiavelli kaddaffi karadicz semin khomeini muboto chauchesko baptista
.br
GROUP2=idiamin saddam mao lenin adolf kim pinochet castro
.br
GROUP3=cleon indbur loris wienis asper stettin gilmer stannell
.br
.IP
This would mean that if the teacher is sitting on khomeini, and runs the
program
.B openfw(8),
He or she will open the following computers for free 'net access:
.IR machiavelli, kaddaffi, karadicz, semin, khomeini, muboto, chauchesko
and
.IR baptista.
.IP "USERS"
.br
This is the same as the
.B GROUPS
variable, only for user group allowed free 'net access
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR "USERS=free turbo"
.IP "LANGUAGE"
What language we should use for the output. So far the programs have only
been translated to Swedish and English (with a lot of spelling errors in
the English version, I reckon :)
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR LANGUAGE=svenska
.IP "MONEY_VALUE"
What type of money we are using.
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR MONEY_VALUE=SEk
.IP "LOGFILE"
Where should we write our log file?
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR LOGFILE=/var/log/tcpquotad.log
.IP "PIDFILE"
Where should we write our pid?
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR PIDFILE=/var/run/tcpquota.pid
.IP "NOQUOTAFILE"
What file should we output to a user if he/she have gone below the minimum
amount of allowed quota?
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR NOQUOTAFILE=/etc/msgs/no-tcp-allowed
.IP "MIN_QUOTA"
What is the minimum amount of quota, before we 'cut the link' for the user?
If the value is 0, then the user can not owe you anything, but if the value
is, say, 200, then the user can owe you a maximum of 200 <MONEY_VALUE>.
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR MIN_QUOTA=150
.IP "RATE_QUOTA"
How much does the one minute cost under the cheap tarrif. In Sweden
we have two different tarrifs, high and low.
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR RATE_QUOTA=0.1
.IP "MIN_UID"
Above what UID should we care about connects? If we set zero (0) here,
even root have to pay... This may not a good option, since the mailer daemon,
and the news daemon etc might do outside connects. We are working on a way
to make each user pay for it's own mail connect, but we have yet to find out
a way...
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR MIN_UID=1000
.IP "TICS"
.br
Number of tcpquotad passes an 'out' session can be unconnected to
the database before tcpquotad gets tired of waiting and throws it
out. It is modified in relation to 'tcpquotad.PERIOD'...
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR TICS=10
.IP "HIGH_START"
.IP "HIGH_STOP"
When does the low rate resp high rate begins and ends?
(Hour of the day, in Sweden that is between 08.00 and
18.00 weekdays, and low rate on weekends)
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR HIGH_START=08
.br
.IP
.B Example:
.IR HIGH_TOP=18
.IP "HIGH_RATE"
.IP "LOW_RATE"
Weight for each second under resp period.
What is the difference between high and low rate?
(In Sweden the high rate is twice as expensive as the
low rate)
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR HIGH_RATE=2
.br
.IP
.B Example:
.IR LOW_RATE=1
.IP "tcpquotad.PERIOD"
How often should the main daemon check for connections?
We have discovered, that on a 386 one might need to have
a number higher than 30 (seconds), so that the machine is
not
.B to
heavily loaded, and on a Pentium, one can check every five
seconds without any problems...
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR tcpquotad.PERIOD=5
.br
.IP
.B Example:
.IR tcpquotad.PERIOD=30
.IP "tcp_masq_openhost.PERIOD"
How often should the 'log daemon'
.B tcpquotatop (1)
check for connections?
.PP
.IP
.B Example:
.IR tcp_masq_openhost.PERIOD=10
.br
.IP
.B Example:
.IR tcp_masq_openhost.PERIOD=30
.SH FILES
/etc/tcpquota/tcpquota.cf
.SH SEE ALSO
.B tcpquotad (8), tcpquotatop (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Turbo Fredriksson, <turbo@tripnet.se>
.br
Martin Budsjoe, <marbud@tripnet.se>
