.TH TCPQUOTAD 8 "TCPQuota Utilities" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
.B tcpquotad
\- The TCPQuota daemon.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tcpquotad
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the engine of the TCPQuota system. It checks
the files in '/proc/net/' for connects to the outside
world and the mSQL tables 'allowed' and 'masq'. The
daemon closes a host if it is not listed in the mSQL
table 'masq', it kills a users processes if the user
is not allowed to use the TCP link _OR_ if the user
have gone below the minimum quota value.
.SH NOTES
The following signals have the specified effect when sent to the server
process using the kill(1) command:

SIGHUP
.br
          Causes server to reload the configuration file.

SIGTERM
SIGINT
SIGQUIT
SIGKILL
.br
          Causes the server to clean the firewall entries
          and the masquerading table from entries, and to
          exit cleanly

SIGUSR1
.br
          Turns on debugging

SIGUSR2
.br
          Turns off debugging
.SH MSQL TABLES
.B tcptab
- This is the main quota table in the database, this contains
the columns: name and quota.
.br

.I name
- contains the username of the user allowed
.br
.I quota
- contains the quota points of the user allowed
This is measured in seconds.
.br

.B allowed
- This is the table that holds the username of the users
that are allowed to use the 'Net link.
A user can exist in the
.I tcptab
table
.B without
being registered here. This is so that one can turn off a
user, without removing it's points.
It only contain one column: name.
.br

.I name
- contains the username of the user allowed
.br

.B periodtab
- xx
.br

.B masq
- This is the table that holds the information on which
host's and user's that the firewall is opened for.
If one, for example executes the program
.I openfw
without parameters, it checks the file
.I /etc/tcpquota/tcpquota.cf
for the lines:
.br

	GROUPS=GROUP1
.br
	GROUP1=xxx yyy zzz

Which means that there are one computer group (GROUP1)
which contains the host's
.B xxx, yyy
and
.B zzz.
If you have logged in on the firewall from host
.B zzz
it opens the host's xxx, yyy and zzz for 'Net access
for free (it depits the TCPQuota user 'free', which
does not need to be an existing system user). This
user can go under any value you set for
.B MIN_QUOTA
in the config file. This table contains the columns:
host, name, cnts, tic, counter, open and free
.br

.I host
- Is the IP nummer of the host that the firewall is
opened for.
.br
.I name
- Is the username of the user that have opened the
firewall for the specified host.
.br
.I cnts
- Number of connects for the specified host
.br
.I tic
- Number of ticks since the table was uppdated
.br
.I counter
- ....
.br
.I open
- This is for used by the support programs, 
.B openfw
and
.B openhost
to trigger the opening/closing of the firewall.
.br

	If the support programs write a:
.br
.I
	3
- means that the firewall should be closed.
.br
.I
	2
- means that it should be opened.
.br

	And the daemon writes a:
.br
.I
	1
- the firewall is opened.
.br
.I
	0
- the firewall is closed.
.br

.I free
- This is 1 if the user is allowed free access to the link
and 0 if not...

.B logging
- Contains the logging about who have changed the TCPQuota
database when...
.br
This table contains the columns:
when, user and action
.br

.I when
- Is the date when the database administrator have
added/removed/changed quota points for another user
.br
.I user
- The name of the database administrator that have
changed the database
.br
.I action
- What have the administrator done?
.br

.B logging_openfw
- Contains the logging about who have opened/closed
the firewall for free/admin access when...
.br
This table contains the columns:
when, user and action
.br

.I when
- Is the date when the database administrator have
opened/closed the firewall for access...
.br
.I user
- The name of the person that have opened/closed
the firewall
.br
.I action
- What have the administrator done (opened/closed,
which set of computers)?
.br

.SH MSQL EXAMPLE
Running msql (1) one can do:

.B
	SELECT quota FROM tcptab WHERE name LIKE 'free'\\\\g

And you'll get something like this:

 +----------+
 | quota    |
 +----------+
 | -1008888 |
 +----------+

This is the number of quota points the user have left
to spend... (In this perticular example, you'll get a
negative value, which means that this is how much the
user have spend...)

.B
	SELECT masq.host, tcptab.name, tcptab.quota FROM
.B
	tcptab, masq WHERE masq.host LIKE '42.42.40.66
.B
	AND tcptab.name LIKE 'free'\\\\g

You'll get an output something like this:

 +-----------------+----------------------+----------+
 | host            | name                 | quota    |
 +-----------------+----------------------+----------+
 | 42.42.40.66     | free                 | -1008888 |
 +-----------------+----------------------+----------+

This means that the user
.B free
is allowed free access from host
.B 42.42.40.66
and have accumulated a negative quota value of
.B 1008888
points (seconds).

You naturally have to exchange the IP number and username
to
.B your
values... For more information on how to use mSQL can be
found in the manual page for msql.

.SH FILES
.B /etc/tcpquota/tcpquota.cf
- Main configuration file for the whole TCPQuota system

.B /etc/tcpquota/tcpquota.cf.debug
- Configuration file used when
.I started
in debug mode

.B /etc/init.d/tcpquota.init
- Used to start and stop the daemon at boot time

.B /etc/cron.weekly/tcpquotad
- Cron script to rotate the tcpquota log files

.B /var/log/tcpquotad.log
- Log file for the daemon
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-\-debug"
Run the daemon in debug mode, do not fork, print extra
debug output.
.SH SEE ALSO
tcpquota.cf(5), msql(5), relshow(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Turbo Fredriksson, <turbo@tripnet.se>
.br
Martin Budsjoe, <marbud@tripnet.se>
